To build soign european AI compute infrastructure. Please welcome on
stage Marus Hacr from Nvidia, Roseanne Kinsset Smith
from Norton Data Group, Daniel Abu from German AI association,
and Michael Bradley from NA.
So hello and thank you for attending our little chat
for the next 30 minutes. My name is Daniel Abou, general manager of the
German AI association. We represent like 460
startups and scale ups from Germany with the focus on
AI development. And I'm really happy to moderate this panel here
at the world of the we are Developers conference, and thank you so much also
to the organization of inviting us, and we are very
happy to chat to you today about the
important issue on how to build a sovereign AI compute
infrastructure. Roseanne Kincai Smith
is the CEO of the Northern Data group. She is one of
the driving forces behind northern Data to ascend as
one of the premier providers of high performance computing.
And of course, Rosean drives the business strategy and
has successfully overseen the global teams. And rose
expertise extends to managing and comprehensive
organizational transformation for northern data, but of course also
for their clients. Michael Bradley
is the CEO and founder of Nua Software.
N Software is implementing state of the art technology and the restaurant
industry. They have a very quick, easy self checkout
solution for a company. Company restaurants in
Germany we call them Cantina, but now they're called business or company
restaurants. That requires the latest technology in the
field of artificial intelligence and computer vision. We will be very interesting
to hear how AI is implemented in the canain and
someone who is also quite an extensive knowledge about the restaurant
business, but now definitely in other ways, is Marus
Har. He is the regional director enterprises for
Nvidia in the so called Dach region. The Dach region is
the Deutschtereich Schweitz.
Since 2019, he leads the activities in
Central Europe and encourages, of course,
also his clients of adapting these products. He has an engineering
background and he built a successful it career at Microsoft T Systems
in AgMA. So guys, this, this is
our topic today, how to build a sovereign AI
compute infrastructure. I think it's always
interesting to know why it's important. Why do
we need a sovereign AI infrastructure in
Europe? Perhaps, Rosanne, you can start with your
preliminary thinking about that luminary thinking. I like that.
I think broadly for us as a business,
and we are an infrastructure business, high performance computing solutions has
its foundations in the AI revolution.
AI is full of promise, and I think we've heard a number of speakers mention
about the sort of revolutionary steps that it is bringing to business as a
whole. And as Michael will walk us through just how advancing
what we can get from society. But more broadly,
everything from Cyberur to medicine is
being impacted by AI. But that then starts
to ask a lot of questions. Data privacy,
sustainability, how we
are investing, where we are investing, and making sure
that all of that information is curated effectively to
get the right outcomes. If we are not purposeful about how we
implement that infrastructure, we will get the wrong results from AI.
Michael, in the sense of why is it important to
have european infrastructure in AI?
Could you tell us, because of your company,
why it is important for you to adapt this?
Well, I would say that in
the case of our company, it's a must have.
It's imperative that we have a local ecosystem here supplying
our customers. The product we build,
sure, it's a global product. It can be used in America, it can be used
in China, but our customer base is very european
related. And there are many, many stipulations about
data security,
all the regulations that to be found in Germany,
it's essential that the data that we store in our system is
located on european soil. And that's where we partnered with
Taiga Cloud. If I may ask, Michael, in the sense of,
when you say the business, restaurants and stuff like that, perhaps people will ask,
why is data sensitivity and what I eat
important? The food on the
tray is irrelevant as long as they pay for it.
No, typically, you will not just find
food, but there are plenty of non food items which are
maybe less critical, like a person's employee card.
Not such a big issue. But you could have documents
and all sorts of data,
all sorts of things on the tray, which would violate
the users privacy if they were sent to the cloud unfiltered.
All right. And stored in a foreign country. Yeah, it's a very
valid point you're making. Marus Nvidia is a global company
that you can definitely say. So why
is it important for a global company also to emphasize
that Europe has its own sovereign AI infrastructure?
That's a very good question. And actually, I just would
need to repeat what Roseanne said and what Michael said, because they
actually, they wrapped it already up pretty nicely. But to
extend that a little bit from how we see it.
So you're obviously right. We are a global company,
but we think in local ecosystems, and we are
very eager to support local ecosystems. So the ecosystem in
the Dachch region, the ecosystem in Germany, and for that, we need local partnerships.
We need organizations like nor VA or Tiger is
their cloud brand, who invests
in, as we call it, AI factories.
We can call it infrastructure for AI, but we actually call
it AI factories. And in this, Roseann called it
thei revolution. And I heard some other people who call it in a
similar way. It's the fourth industrial revolution that
we see here. And at the first time,
we as human mankind, we have the capability
to build factories that produce intelligence, so called tokens,
technically speaking, by putting data and electrons
into such a factory and getting tokens, hands intelligence
out of that factory. And that's a pretty big step.
And it's important to do that step, of course, globally, but also think
locally, so support local ecosystem. And also
one of our key values globally is to democratize
AI. So we are not looking that
AI is a tool which is just in the hands of a couple of
people or a couple of big companies, but we want to
support that. AI is being used by as many people as possible, and also is
used by smaller companies. And neweroft obviously is a startup
company. And Michael summarized it for all that topics
like data sovereignty, data protection, GDPR. He was looking
for a local partner in the region, and we were able by the partnership with
Tiger north and data to offer that partnership. And basically we
want to let the customer choose. We have global partnerships with all the big cloud
providers. That's good, that's important, and that's the global strategy.
But in the end, the customer should and needs to decide
on where he wants to go to. And for that, it's important to provide
their choices. And we are pretty glad to have that partnership and are
supporting that in many ways. Roseanne Marcus
just spoke about local ecosystems. How important
are local ecosystems for you at the northern
data group? And certainly also a question which belongs to that
is, how can Europe remain competitive
in AI? Because your firm, situated in London,
I would say I think that's no breaking news for anyone, that the
US and China are quite on the forefront of AI. But how can
Europe make this? And what importance do local ecosystems
have? Yeah, I mean, I think you've got this massive
global race on with AI at the moment. And Marcus
mentioned democratization, and that is a core ethos of our business
too. And that goes hand in hand with local ecosystems.
As a business, we have a responsibility to ensure that that
access is granted, but not just the access,
making sure that skills are provided, that we as a business
encourage the right types of partnerships or the right type of customers,
and we expand that ecosystem. If we
don't take that accountability, AI will definitely
take that swerve into being the purview of just a few
and so that local ecosystem, making sure that it's fit for purpose
to that environment, that the skills are being developed, is what's
going to help drive Europe forward and hopefully
outpace the rest of the world. Because certainly Europe has some of the brightest
minds and some of the highest educational standards in the
world. So the more we can embrace that to bring
AI into the local ecosystems and use some of the high
standards that Europe applies to businesses, the better for
us. Marus, if I can, back to you
what Roa just said, having a kind of
european AI. So a good friend of mine once told me the sentence,
if you asked cheat CPTT a question, you get a californian answer.
So in this sense, I found it at least
noteworthy to say this. But why is it
important? Is it important about languages, cultures? Why do you think
it's important to have that, all of that, what you just said is important?
Languages matters because languages are actually
culture. And in
the end, it comes down to the data that models are being trained
with. Those models are not
selfident beings or whatever,
but it's an algorithm
that is using basically later in inferencing
the data which is being trained with. And of course,
you can see probably which kind of data had been used to train which
algorithm, and that's then influencing
the answers that you get. And speaking of local ecosystem,
and speaking of local companies, we are quite proud to have a
company like DeepL, also in the region, who and
you spoke about language and about culture and deep else wion
is to break down those language barriers by providing
translation systems that can be used by everyone in
a proper way. And they use AI basically to. To transl
meanwh translate, meanwhile, 35 and 40 languages into
the other one, and in neutral tests,
seen as the most accurate platform for that
globally. Michael, can I ask you about the
competitiveness? So you're from Ireland originally,
you're now situated in Munich, so you have also a european
perspective on things. How do you see the AI infrastructure
problematic in Europe? And how do you profit,
perhaps from a local ecosystem? Well,
an ecosystem consists of many components, starting with
GPU's, when we're talking about AI that Nvidia provide,
Taiga cloud providing a platform for developers or companies,
startups like me, but it also needs people.
And I see a serious.
When I compare where we are in Europe today with the
likes of other global places like the States
and China, I see a great deficit in the
number of data scientists, engineers here that can really
make this ecosystem come alive. And I
would love to see european initiatives that help out
small startups and educating
our workforceces. You're totally right. We have some of the brightest minds
in Europe and we need to make a europ force in
AI and this only happens with people.
So one of the things I realized that in my
position in the german AI associated is that when we have
a call with our members and we talk to them,
sometimes I'call it group therapy. But in this case, you know,
we ask them what are your biggest challenges? And as there are mostly
startups and scale ups, of course financing is always place one.
But the second thing they have really a challenge is the
implementation of AI products in SME's, in european
or german SME's. So what
can you do as company and firms besides selling
the products of helping german and european industry reap
the benefits of AI? Where are the possibilities?
So I mean, as we were saying, democratization is core to
our ethos and we share that as an ethos with Nvidia
and with our customers. Our right
there is our accountability as a business is to make sure
that we actually practice what we preach. And so when we say we democratize
access, we actually have a program that we run at our business. It's called
the AI accelerator. We invite companies who
do not have access to the kinds of capital that is required
to operate on H 100s for instance, and for
them to pitch that idea to us. We then give them access free
of charge to our hardware to allow them to develop that proof
of concept. We also provide coaching for their mentorship,
including opportunities to raise capital,
including investment from us. Because as I said and
as Michael and everybody
has underscored, that we need to make sure that we are
providing substance to the ecosystem and skills is definitely
the parth to that. And so the least we can do is to provide that
access to the hardware. How do
you see the possibilities and where can you help the
european or AI industry? About AI? Because selling the
product is one thing, but implementing is I think definitely another.
Yeah, I fully agree. Andman,
the famous german midittelstand is actually the
backbone of our economy. That'something which
we need to explain often
globally, because this way how the
german economy works is pretty unique. That is
not the same in the US, that is not the same in other countries,
but that's very specific in Germany. And that's kind of,
how should I say, eangelism almost that we need to do with
our global organization. Say listen, this is
an important part of the german economy and we need to help them and we
need to make sure that they have the ability to
adopt a eye. And Michael just made a very good point. That's about people.
It's about people. It's about talent and talent in
AI. They, and they are looking for places where
they can do their work. And data scientists,
they need proper infrastructure, they need access to compute,
to proper compute, to train the models to
inference, the models to fine tune them. And therefore,
it's also important to give them opportunities locally where
they can access, compute and do their work. And that's one thing, another thing
that is important, which is also deeply in the DNA of Nvidia.
We are very eager to engage with developers.
That's why we are here. That's why we have a bo here. I can just
encourage everyone to come to Ourus at Hall 2.2.
And we, for example, do courses to
refine the skills of programmers.
In terms of AI, there's different courses in computer vision,
in building different AI platforms, and it's all about people, and it's
all about talent, and hence that trans of knowledge into
the community of developers. It's another thing where we
put a very high emphasis to and want to support the local ecosystem also
with their efforts. And Marcus is forgetting that in
Europe, we tend to be a little bit more skeptical of everything, and particularly
the Germans. Yeah, but ro, exactly to your point,
the skeptical thing. So when we talk to our companies,
what is the problematics between you connecting to SME's?
And I think the picture that, it's just my personal opinion,
but we have, you have on the one side, the 65
year old family SME owner. Yeah,
from Swabia or from Bavaria, who lives like for
40 years in his data silo. On the other hand,
you have the 25 year old AI entrepreneur from Berlinreutitzberg,
we talks, who says to the 65 year old, well,
you should do data sharing with your competitors
that we should do in a cloud system, and then we can perhaps develop an
AI project. And when the 65 year old hears
that he should do data sharing with his competitors, he's out.
So what danger? Isn't this also a
kind of, I would like, say, generational problem with handling of
data? I mean, so quite, I was recently attended
a dinner where people were sort of talking about the priorities between AI and
politics. So what's being discussed at your boardroom table at the moment?
And almost without exception, people were talking about AI and
not about pending elections, which I thought was quite interesting because they kind of go
hand in hand. But that does show generational gap,
because actually, what's front and center was for the
majority of younger people is, well, one, what is
AI going to mean for me in the future for older people? You're like,
does that mean that it's going to impact my business, impact my job?
Where does the longevity of that sit? And that goes back to my comments
about us being quite skeptical about what AI will,
how it will impact us. So it's in the nature of
us certainly I think to look at the negative side, in contrast
maybe to the North Americans, where everything is an opportunity.
So we've tended to focus ono those sort of narrow things.
And it's why I think we are seeing the gaps emerge on skills
and the sort of like gaps in the ecosystem because there's too
much cynicism around it, because we think the
impact will be negative. And as I mentioned to you guys
outside, so people tend to be scared of AI, but it's no competition for
natural human stupidity. So I think we're going to be okay
if we learn to use it the right way. One question
for the group is that in exactly what you say, the skepticism and
stuff like that, but isn't the problem also in the skepticism that
the discussion about AI is like in extremes,
you have the tech bubble who says I overemphasize my point.
It's a reincarnation of Jesus Christ. And the contraoint is that
AI is, is the terminate,
the worst thing that ever happens. Isn't it time to
demystify AI to make it about concrete products,
which Michael is doing and things
like that? 100% agreed. And Michael's
offering, the offering of his company is a perfect example
because it really solves and accurates and an actual
problem. All those operators of those
canteens of those business restaurants, they simply don't find
people who do the checkout anymore. And, you know,
so people have the choice of using the alpha checkout or don't
get lunch. What do you prefer? Do you want to get lunch or do you
want to use the AI checkout system? It's about making use cases
that are touchable for people. And I, I see
the same like controversy discussions that you just
mentioned, Daniel, and I think the only way to get rid of that step by
step, and that will take a while and it will be a
journey for all of us in this industry.
We need to take people with us on the journey and we need to
explain it. We need to make it judgeable. That's the
levers that we need to pull to get rid of this very controversial
discussions that we have. How do you convince a
skeptical cantteen owner to adapt
something which is normally something very manual. People are cooking,
people are getting their food, they're eating. How do you
convince them of doing AI,
to do generalization and doing
it automatically? How can you convince. And it
depends on the stakeholder. So, for example,
the owner of the canteen, he's trying to solve
a problem that he wants to sell food,
but nobody wants to man the cashier. And then you've
got the retri slider. So the person
responsible for the restaurant, you have to make their
job simple. You cannot overcomplicate
matters. It has to be as simple as I take an image of
the food on the day AI goes away, does its thing,
five minutes later they're ready for service. It has to be
that simple. The only thing in pre sales,
which is always an issue, is you have to take away the fear. The fear.
Where'my data landing? I don't want to harp on, on data, but data is,
and it depends always on the size of the company you're operating with.
There are regular in place and you have to take away that fear
that, for example, if a customer wants on premise inferencing,
we give it to them because they don't want to take the risk that the
data is landing on some cloud in some location where
they have no control over. So it's about flexibility and taking away
fear. I can, don't know what else I should say.
So one of the challenges that we realized, especially in
the data infrastructure for AI, also with project that we
did, is that one is convincing
the SME's but also big companies, as I think before JatGPTt
was even worse. So thankfully, this certainly gave
the discussion some momentum. But how
can we see, especially in a time where some,
some economic indicators are, are not that good to
invest in this kind of data infrastructure? Because they'saying,
hey, we don't know where the world is in five years,
why should we invest in this kind of cases?
I mean, I'actually, I've had a number of panelsr
about investment in AI and we can
say that about everything. We won't know where the world will be in five years
time. But the opportunity that AI represents,
certainly to me and from an investment standpoint, is the
opportunity to shape that future, to develop the
technologies in the right way, to bring value
to all the right ecosystems. To your point, take out the fear,
make it really simple about how this will improve your
life and invest behind that.
That's where I see the opportunity. See? Yeah,
I would like to turn it around also in a positive way a little bit.
Daniel I think you guys from Kunusand
play an important role in that'a, very important role inle
in that whole journey to convince people to make it
more a normal technology that simplifies our daily lives,
that solves problems in our daily life, that solves some of the hardest
problems that we have in human mankind. I mean, we still develop
pharmaceuticals, not from a technology
point of view that's very modern, but from a structured
approach. Fromarmaceuticals are still developed like 100 years ago,
the systematic is still the same. So using
AI to develop pharmaceuticals,
drugs for especially rare diseases,
is something which can solve some of the biggest problems that we have in human
mankind, but it can't happen only in
the tech bubble. So, so just that, you know, we have a project running,
it's called liam large european AI models, which is
trying to get the people and the SME's to get data
center time that they can do their models. And we're not talking about GPT
five, six, seven or eight and something like that, but specialized model
which is adaptable for SME's, which is adaptable
for smaller solutions. And exactly what you're saying is that
we have AI can help. It is not the question,
it's not the answer to everything. It's certainly not.
But I think that especially in the time where we have
a skill worker shortage in the time where we have.
So can you tell us the example that you say about
the at the moment or
in other areas where we simply don't have the
human resources anymore to do the things we
are used to do in the current time?
I mean you just said it, it's something that
Deutschean is also dealing very, very openly with,
that they miss like 5000 train drivers currently.
And the structure of age
of this workforce is in a way that
you can clearly forecast how many people go
are going to retire in the next ten years and
that will make the problem huge. So in ten years we
will have just 50% of the train drivers that we would need to
operate trains. So we
need to invest into create self driving trains. Otherwise probably
our transportation system will. And the aren't late,
they simply not there. Exactly. Yeah.
Then no one will be unhappy about ten minutes delay
because the trains will simply not go without the driver. If you don't have autonomous
trains, then let me hit you on one point, is the
question of course of AI and energy consumption and sustainability.
So let's say this is also very, how can I say,
emphatic discussions that they say AI is the
most waste of energy that you have. And how can we or you at the
northern native solve this kind of issue? That AI
needs energy and energy consumption? I mean, the world
is incredibly energy hungry at the moment. And the introduction
of AI and all of these AI factories
has driven up that demand for consumption significantly.
We're talking doubling up on the amount of power that is
required for data centers in the next 48 months. So from 17 gigawatts
to 35 gigawatts in the space of 48 months, that is an
enormous impact on all of the energy grids and all of the energy
consumption and sources that we have today. And never
mind the potential impact from residual heat as
well as from waste that surrounds that. So for us as
a business, we've taken a very, very specific stance on
one. One of the reasons we partner with Nvidia is because it is
some of the best hardware out there. It's extremely energy efficient,
and it's also direct to chip, liquid cooled. That means it's
compliant with our data center environments. It has low.
Yeah, you're here. O yeah, I can't hear myself.
And we also position our data centers in places
where we have full renewable energy sources. And one of the things that's
really important for us to be able to offer to our customers is that carbo
free environment. That way we will be able to
have the benefits of AI without the impact on the environment.
Roseanne Kincaiate Smith, Michael Bradley Markusako,
thank you so much for the discussion. Thank you for the exclusive audience here
for your attention. My name is Daniel Labou. I wish you a very pleasant day
at the conference and goodbye. Daniel, thank you so
much for hosting us. Of course.
Thank you. Rosa still alive.
Okay. Thank you very much. So stay tuned for our next
session. The neo architecture of productivity, how work
environments impact cognitive performance. Ten minutes.
It.